OpenSearch Project Leadership Committee


# Meeting Minutes 


### 20 March 2024 / 8:00 AM PT


# ATTENDEES

Present: Amitai Stern, Kris Freedain, Andriy Redko, Daniel Doubrovkine, Grant Ingersoll, Charlotte Henkle, Mehul A. Shah, Eli Fisher, Jonah Kowall, Anandi Bumstead

Absent: Nicholas Knize, Nithya Ruff, Samuel Herman


# AGENDA


## Last Meeting Follow-up



1. [https://github.com/opensearch-project/community/blob/main/leadership-committee/minutes/2024/2024-03-06-minutes.md](https://github.com/opensearch-project/community/blob/main/leadership-committee/minutes/2024/2024-03-06-minutes.md) 


## Last Meeting Action Items



* **Action item 1**: (Mehul) -[ opensearch-project/.github#184](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/pull/184) - Mehul will address the comments this week
* **Action item 2** (Sam / Eli) (How do we define roadmaps? Suggestion is submit a proposal for inclusion in the .github MAINTAINERS file/process) 
    * Sam has drafted[ opensearch-project/.github#192](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/pull/192)
    * Sam absent
* **Action Item 3** (Sam / Eli) (Rules of engagement: How do we assign Issues / PRs. Current process and how can this be improved and documented. Self assignment?)
    * Sam absent
* **Action item 4** (Sam) Policy regarding PR comments & changes - Still WIP ([update to RESP](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/blob/main/RESPONSIBILITIES.md))
    * _Action items_ for Sam/dB/Andriy/Kris
    * Sam absent
* **Action item 5** (Eli / Kris) Leadership Committee responsibilities: Add context on how LC has the ability to step in to raise awareness on duplicate work. May include remediation. - Still WIP
* **Action item 6** (all) [Linux Foundation survey](https://www.research.net/r/TLLYRVC?utm_medium=email&_hsmi=294327751&utm_content=294327923&utm_source=hs_email) went out. Please provide your input. Share with your audiences 
    * Complete
* **Action item 7** (Kris / all) Continue work on adding MAINTAINERS from the community 
    * Barani Bikshandi is working on a project - will follow up and get status before next meeting
* **Action item 8** (Kris) begin drafting proposal on how we elect new members to LC - likely similar to MAINTAINERS process in the OpenSearch Project
    * WIP


## New Business



* How to engage (motivate?) listed maintainers. In OpenSearch core we have had this issue for a long time already, there are only a few maintainers who look into pull requests and engage into conversations. A small percentage of others are focused on either some specific niche areas (or just push approve + merge buttons), but the majority is not participating. The situation is non sustainable and has already burned some people, no sight to improve. What could we do to engage existing maintainers to chime in and help with code reviews and discussions? \
 \
To note, I would like to specifically rule out the discussions regarding bringing new maintainers, we have been talking about that in scope of other developments (foundation).


# NOTES / Discussion



* Notes new business - engaging maintainers:
    * Core repo example: long list of maintainers, but there appear to be only 3-4 ‘active’ maintainers working through code and triaging 
    * Worry this could lead to burnout 
    * What is the AWS way to do this (if this is part of individuals assigned job)
    * Some would like to see tasks assigned daily.
    * Component labels could help = areas people are assigned 
    * Process for emeritus? Do we need to improve this? 
    * What does it mean to retain ‘active’ - what levers exist
    * Burnout is the main problem - some feel that people are getting pinged directly too often, should be shared a bit more
    * Do we pair down the list? Get another 5 people added as maintainers?
    * Natural attrition of maintainers makes it hard
    * Foundation could help, but this is not an immediate solution 
    * Scope or tooling for this to help PR review
    * This also could be improved by standards for contributing - some PRs are complex - could be improved by scope/standards
    * Some see PR / Issue triage as their job, do others not?
        * What does it mean to be successful maintainer
        * Be clear on the bar to get commit rights
        * Amazon needs to see what they can do for individuals - if this is part of their job responsibilities 


# NEW ACTION ITEMS


1. Engaging maintainers (Andriy) - start in core - will create an issue to discuss active vs inactive vs emeritus with the community - dB will assist with data if needed 
